Eric Kinnear: Hi,
my name is Eric
from the Internet Technologies
team.
Today, we'll cover
how your app can adapt
to changing network conditions.
We'll dive right in by looking
at different types of networks
and their unique properties.
We'll cover how to use APIs
available on Apple platforms
to describe your networking
needs to the system.
When things don't work right
away, we'll explore how your app
can know when to try
connecting again.
And finally,
we'll dig into testing
under a variety
of network conditions
to make sure that everyone
using your app
has the best experience
possible.
Let's start by talking
about networks.
Apple devices often have
multiple ways to connect
to a network, for example,
cellular networks or Wi-Fi.
If the device just has
a cellular connection,
internet traffic can, of course,
use that interface.
Once the device joins
a Wi-Fi network,
you might be tempted to think
that Internet traffic
will just use that interface
instead.
However, now the device has
at least two different
interfaces it can use.
Some protocols and apps
can use either,
or even both of these interfaces
at the same time.
Existing connections may see
a better route notification,
indicating that they
should consider
using a new connection
for subsequent communication.
For example, apps can use
multipath technologies
such as multipath TCP and QUIC
to create connections
that seamlessly migrate
between cellular and Wi-Fi
if connectivity is lost.
Apps can also use 5G networks
instead of Wi-Fi
when conditions would
make it a better experience.
Networks have
different properties.
making them suitable
for different types of use.
For example,
some cellular networks
may be expensive to use,
with metered data plans,
while others may be unlimited.
Some Wi-Fi networks, similarly,
should not be used
for bulk data, like when
connected to Personal Hotspot.
Someone may have put their
connection into Low Data mode,
a signal that they
want to limit their data use.
Other network resources may only
be available after the system
does work to bring up
another interface, like VPN.
iPhone or iPad might even have
an Ethernet connection
available to apps as well.
These are just a few examples
of the many different types
of connectivity that may
be available to a device.
Fortunately, your app
does not need to account for all
of these different combinations
to create the best experience.
Apple platforms intelligently
select the best interface
for your app's connections.
To get the most out of this,
you just need to describe
your app's networking needs
to the system.
Let's explore how to do that.
The best way to account
for all of these network types
is to reason about
the properties of the network,
rather than the type
of the network.
This lets the system select
the best interface
in any of these combinations
for your app's connection.
There are two properties
of a network
that you can use to declare
your networking needs.
Using just these two properties,
your app can respect
user preferences
for how they want apps
to use available networks.
Constrained networks arise
when someone has requested
that apps use less data
by enabling Low Data mode
and is automatically enabled
for Personal Hotspot.
Use
allowsConstrainedNetworkAccess
on URLSessionConfiguration,
and prohibitsConstrainedPaths
when using network framework
to determine whether
a connection should proceed
on a constrained network.
In general, apps should limit
transfers to small payloads and
only perform tasks that enable
the user's explicit actions
when on a constrained network.
Bulk transfers
and background prefetching
should not be performed
on constrained networks.
Networks can also be
expensive to use.
Similar logic applies here.
These networks should only
be used for user-initiated work.
Similar APIs in URLSession
and NetworkFramework
let you allow or prohibit
using these networks.
Consider using similar logic
for both constrained
and expensive networks.
Now that you've described
the kind of network
your connection should use
based on its properties,
you should just try to connect
right away.
You may be tempted to check
whether the device
is on Wi-Fi
or has access to VPN
before you make your connection,
but that should be avoided.
Network conditions change
frequently, and these changes
can even be triggered
by your app's requests.
That means that pre-flight
checks are often incorrect
and can lead to unintended
behavior in your app.
In fact, pre-flight checks
with SCNetworkReachability
are deprecated in iOS 17.4.
Instead, try to connect.
If the system can't immediately
fulfill the request
due to current
network conditions,
using waitsForConnectivity
on your URLSessionConfiguration
or the waiting state
on your NW connection
means it will notify you that
your task is waiting,
and the system will
automatically retry the request
when conditions change.
Because the system can wait
for connectivity automatically,
this makes it really easy to
know when to try requests again.
Let's explore what to do
in this situation.
If the system can't immediately
start a network request
when using waitsForConnectivity,
the request will be placed
in a waiting state,
and the app will be notified
through its urlSession
task delegate that the task
is waiting for connectivity.
In this case, you don't have
to retry the request again
when connectivity changes.
The system does it
automatically.
When a task
is waiting for connectivity,
consider communicating
the reason to help the user
understand and take
any necessary actions,
and provide a way for people
to continue using your app.
In this example, the app's data
will sync automatically
when the device has connectivity
to a nonconstrained network.
However, tapping Sync Now
will relax this constraint
and perform a sync
on their constrained network.
When communicating
network conditions,
use alerts sparingly.
Alerts communicate
important information,
but they can be
disruptive and confusing
since network conditions are
often out of someone's control.
Instead,
offer information and options
in line with clear
and easy ways to proceed.
Finally,
let's talk about testing.
People will experience a variety
of different network conditions
when using your app,
so testing many different
conditions is essential.
You can simulate different
network conditions with Xcode
right in the Devices
and Simulators window.
For example, you can select
the network link condition
and LTE profile,
which will simulate
a typical LTE network
in average conditions.
You can then test workflows
in your app
to make sure everything
is smooth and fluid.
To test your app on an iPhone
or iPad, you can use
the Network Link Conditioner
in Developer Settings.
Here you can simulate the same
network conditions as in Xcode.
And you can use Network Override
to simulate changes
of the device's
network properties.
Well, you can always use
the settings for each interface
to enable Low Data mode.
Here you can set
whether the cellular
and the Wi-Fi interfaces
on the system
are considered
expensive or inexpensive.
You can also configure the
system to prefer a 5G network
over poor or insecure Wi-Fi.
This allows you
to find situations
where legacy networking code
might not be able
to take advantage
of better connectivity.
The good news is,
as long as the app follows
the best practices
we just covered,
and is describing its needs
to Network Framework
and urlSession,
the system will intelligently
select the best interface
without any extra work.
Now is a great time to adopt
modern networking practices
that take advantage of all of
the device's network interfaces.
To do this, describe your
networking needs to the system
in terms of properties,
like whether the request
is suitable for
constrained networks.
Avoid limiting requests
to specific interfaces,
like Wi-Fi or cellular.
Remove pre-flight networking
checks in your app,
and use waitsForConnectivity
instead of manual retries
so that your networking
resumes automatically
when conditions meet
your app's needs.
You should also ensure
your app is using
modern and fast protocols,
like HTTP/3 and QUIC.
To learn more, watch
"Accelerate Networking
with HTTP/3 and QUIC."
With this approach,
your app's networking
will adapt to changing network
conditions automatically,
and provide
the best experience possible.
Thanks for watching.